Dear Haskellers,

We are pleased to announce the release of haskell-mpi-1.0.0, a suite of Haskell bindings to C MPI library and convenience APIs on top of it.

MPI, the Message Passing Interface, is a popular communications protocol for distributed parallel computing (http://www.mpi-forum.org/).

MPI applications consist of independent computing processes which share information by message passing communication. It supports both point-to-point and collective communication operators, and manages much of the mundane aspects of message delivery. There are several high-quality implementations of MPI available which adhere to the standard API specification (the latest version of which is 2.2). The MPI specification defines interfaces for C, C++ and Fortran, and bindings are available for many other programming languages. 

As the name suggests, Haskell-MPI provides a Haskell interface to MPI, and thus facilitates distributed parallel programming in Haskell. It is implemented on top of the C API via Haskell's foreign function interface. Haskell-MPI provides three different ways to access MPI's functionality:
   * A direct binding to the C interface (see Control.Parallel.MPI.Internal).
   * A convenient interface for sending arbitrary serializable Haskell data values as messages (see Control.Parallel.MPI.Simple).
   * A high-performance interface for working with (possibly mutable) arrays of storable Haskell data types (see Control.Parallel.MPI.Fast).

We do not currently provide exhaustive coverage of all the functions and types defined by MPI
2.2, although we do provide bindings to the most commonly used parts. In future we plan
to extend coverage based on the needs of projects which use the library.

Package is available from http://hackage.haskell.org/package/haskell-mpi, examples and testsuite of 100+ tests are included in the source distribution. 

Code was tested on 32- and 64-bit platforms, with MPICH2 and OpenMPI. Fast API shows performance comparable to C, and Simple API is usually 2-7 time slower.

Bernie Pope started this project as a rewrite of hMPI by Michael Weber and Hal Daume III. Later on Well-Typed LLC needed the functionality for its Parallel Haskell Project, and Dmitry Astapov joined development effort. 

Right now code is hosted on GitHub, in git://github.com/bjpop/haskell-mpi and git://github.com/adept/haskell-mpi. Please join in!

-- 
Dmitry Astapov, Bernie Pope
